this video was made possible by
curiosity stream when you sign up with
the link in the description you'll also
get access to nebula the streaming video
platform that hii is a part of here at
half as interesting or viewers always
seem hungry for more North Korea content
kindly call the people of North Korea
are always hungry and so without further
ado allow me to introduce you to the
ruing hotel an enormous glass pyramid
located in Pyongyang that looks like the
evil lair of a super villain named dr.
triangle at 1080 two feet or 330 meters
it's the 63rd tallest building in the
world but who cares about something
being 63rd place I mean at that point it
might as well be in twelve thousand nine
hundred and fifty fourth place what's
interesting about the Rue young hotel is
that it's the single tallest unoccupied
building in the world that's right the
number of people in the wrong hotel is
the same as the number of good jokes in
this video construction on the Rue young
hotel began in 1987 but its story began
a year earlier in 1986 when the Westin
Stanford Hotel was completed in
Singapore becoming the world's tallest
hotel now you might think to yourself
why do the North Koreans care what
happens in Singapore after all North
Korea is here Singapore is here the only
things between them are the East China
Sea and the South China Sea two super
uncontroversial things b/c the west and
Stanford was built by the same young
group which is a South Korean company if
there's one thing that North Korea hates
more than mediocre Seth Rogen movies is
their neighbor to the south North Korea
was determined to prove that they were
better than South Korea and so they
decided to respect human rights open up
their economy and reduce their nuclear
our I'm just kidding besides a bill a
giant glass nightmare hotel when
completed North Korea's ruling Hotel was
to be the tallest hotel in the world and
for the first five years of construction
it looked like they might actually pull
it off but then in 1992 everything
ground to a halt
because of the North Koreans ran out of
money well more accurately the USSR who
was giving a ton of aid to North Korea
ran out of money and even more
accurately USSR didn't so much as run
out of money as they did politically
collapsed through a combination of the
democratization foreign pressure and the
type of economic policy that included
funding a 330 metre tall pyramid in a
country that can't even afford Pringles
in 1992 when construction halted on the
Rue young hotel it looked like this a
one hundred and five storey concrete
husk that was a
as useful as a Greek Treasury pond wali
Hotel had reached his intended height it
had no windows no fixings no interior
none of the little shampoo bottles that
people seal at checkout in other words
the hotel was completely unusable this
was particularly troublesome because the
North Koreans had spent about seven
hundred and fifty million dollars
building it which was 2% of the nation's
entire GDP for context 2% of the u.s.
GDP would be 387 billion dollars which
is about as much money as Jeff Bezos
Bill Gates Warren Buffett and Mark
Zuckerberg have combined or it's how
much money the bottom 50% of Americans
have combined which is fun for the next
16 years the real young hotel stayed
unfinished during which time it became a
subject of enormous embarrassment for
North Korea alongside other North Korean
embarrassments like failed nuclear tests
defecting citizens and Kim jong-un's
haircut
in fact the rear young hotel was
considered so embarrassing that the
North Korean government would airbrush
it out of official photos of the
cheongyang skyline it was like using
facetune but instead of hiding pimples
they were hiding a 750 million dollar
concrete slab eventually though in 2008
construction resumed with the intention
of opening the hotel in 2012 at the
100-year anniversary of the birth of Kim
il-sung who was both the first leader of
North Korea and the world's greatest
intellectual musician and basketball
player at least according to the North
Korean government in 2011 the hotel's
exterior was finally completed turning
the ruie young hotel from a giant
useless husk of a structure to a shiny
giant useless husk of a structure since
then various opening dates have been set
and canceled mainly because of all the
hotel may look finished from the outside
on the inside it looks like this more
like a course in Tony Hawk pro skater 2
than a hotel today though
while the hotel remains closed it does
finally have some purpose in 2018 an LED
display was fitted to one side of the
hotel and now it shows animations and
even scenes from North Korean films
because after all movies help you forget
about your problems problems like that
your government spent all its money
building a pointless giant Hotel movie
screen so that they could show up a
South Korean hotel from 1986 by the way
you know what else happened in 1986 the
Chernobyl nuclear disaster now I could
tell you more about that event and how
the exclusion zone is faring today or
you could just watch the great
documentary nature fights back in
Chernobyl which is available right now
on curiosity stream
curiosity stream is the streaming
platform with thousands of top qualty
documentaries from people like Jane
Goodall Chris Hadfield David
Attenborough and Stephen Hawking plus a
ton more and it's only $20 a year free
subscription not $20 a month $20 for the
whole year plus when you sign up for an
annual subscription to curiosity stream
at curiosity stream comm / h AI you'll
also get access to nebula the streaming
platform made by myself and a bunch of
your favorite youtube creators which is
filled with ad free versions of our
videos plus a bunch of awesome original
content like grand test auto a cart
review shown by the guys behind real
life floor and second thought or the
world's most useful airport the
documentary I made you can get that
bundle deal at curiosity shoot calm /h a